chore: documentation (#18)
liftedinit/manifest-ledger: MODULE.md

      - [Token Minting](#token-minting)
      - [Token Burning](#token-burning)
      - [Token Administration](#token-administration)
      - [Metadata Management](#metadata-management)
      - [Commands](#commands-2)
        - [Burn (burn)](#burn-burn)
        - [Burn From (burn-from)](#burn-from-burn-from)
        - [Mint (mint)](#mint-mint)
        - [Change Admin (change-admin)](#change-admin-change-admin)
        - [Create Denom (create-denom)](#create-denom-create-denom)
        - [Force Transfer (force-transfer)](#force-transfer-force-transfer)
        - [Modify Metadata (modify-metadata)](#modify-metadata-modify-metadata)

## Manifest Module

The Manifest module is responsible for handling inflation and manual minting events. Below is a structured breakdown of its components and functionalities:

### Module Functionality

Stakeholder Management: Allows the PoA admin to designate stakeholders, who can be one or multiple manifest wallet addresses. These stakeholders are eligible to receive assets issued by the PoA admin.

#### Asset Issuance:

- Manual Issuance: The PoA admin can manually mint and disburse a specified amount of tokens to the stakeholders.

> - Automatic Inflation: When enabled, tokens are minted every block, aiming for a predetermined total over a year.

Reviewer: predetermined total what? inflation? tokens?

Reviewer 2: umfx tokens, set in the module params. Will add content here

#### Commands

##### Update Parameters (update-params):

- Syntax: `manifestd tx manifest update-params [address:percent_share] [inflation_on_off] [annual_total_mint]`

  - Parameters:

>     - `address:percent_share`: Specifies the wallet address and its share of the total rewards (to the ninth exponent).

Reviewer: Rephrase.

- Is this a destination address that will receive tokens?
- How does one specify multiple addresses in a single command?

Reviewer 2: - yes, added context
- added to syntax. Is just a comma delimited list. Was in the standard `manifestd tx manifest update-params` example. just not ported over here

>     - `address:percent_share`: Specifies the wallet address and its share of the total rewards (to the ninth exponent).

Reviewer: Are we checking that the sum is 100%?

Reviewer 2: yes, this is verified when the message is sent. Will error if not == 100%

    - `inflation_on_off`: A boolean value (true or false) to toggle automatic inflation.

>     - `annual_total_mint`: The total amount of tokens to be minted annually.

Reviewer: Mention this is only used if automatic inflation is ON.

>   **Example:** `manifestd tx manifest update-params manifest1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct:100_000_000 false 500000000umfx`

Reviewer: In this example, you are setting automatic inflation to OFF but still setting the annual total mint. Why?

Add more examples covering more use cases and explain those.

How does one remove a stakeholder? Set share to 0?

E.g.,
- 5 stakeholders (10%, 5%, 40%, 5%, 40%), inflation OFF
- Remove 1 stakeholder
- ...

Reviewer 2: the amount of tokens here could be set to 0umfx. This is due to the CLI requiring a number of arguments for this. In reality, for the multisig a UI or plain JSON would be used. Not the CLI. This CLI is more so for power users, in which we need to give all options for

##### Stakeholder Payout (stakeholder-payout):

> - Syntax: `manifestd tx manifest stakeholder-payout [amount]`

Reviewer: IIUC, `amount` is divided by the % of share each stakeholder has and distributed accordingly?

Author: yes precisely

  - Parameters:

    - `amount`: The amount of tokens to mint from the yearly allocated inflation.

    This command will fail if automatic inflation is enabled.

  **Example:** `manifestd tx manifest stakeholder-payout 777umfx`

## Proof of Authority Module

The PoA module is responsible for handling admin actions like adding and removing other administrators, setting the staking parameters of the chain, controlling voting power, and allowing/blocking validators. Below is a structured breakdown of its components and functionalities:

### Module Functionality

The PoA admin has several capabilities for managing the chain and its validators:

#### Validator Management:

- Remove validators from the active set.
- Remove validators pending addition to the active set.
- Specify the voting power for each validator.
- Approve the addition of new validators.

#### Staking Parameters Update:

- The PoA admin can update various staking parameters, including:

>   - `unbondingTime`: The time period for unbonding tokens.

Reviewer: Please explain further.

  - `maxVals`: The maximum number of validators.

>   - `maxEntries`: The maximum number of entries.

Reviewer: Please explain further.

>   - `historicalEntries`: The number of historical entries to store.

Reviewer: Please explain further.

  - `bondDenom`: The denomination for bonding and staking.

>   - `minCommissionRate`: The minimum commission rate for validators.

Reviewer: Please explain further.

#### Administrative Rights:

- Assign or revoke administrative privileges.
- Determine if validators have the ability to self-revoke.

#### Commands

##### Update Parameters (update-params):

- Syntax: `manifestd tx poa update-params [admin1,admin2,admin3,...] [allow-validator-self-exit-bool]`

  - Parameters:
    - `admin1,admin2,admin3,...`: A list of admin addresses which can be multisig addresses.
    - `allow-validator-self-exit-bool`: A boolean value (true or false) to allow validators to self-exit.

  **Example:** `manifestd tx poa update-params manifest1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct,manifest1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct false`

> ##### Update Staking Parameters (update-staking-params):

Reviewer: I assume this is NOT used when automatic inflation is disabled as there is no staking? If so, please add a mention.

Author: Your assumption is incorrect. Staking parameters have no correlation to inflation.

Reviewer: Please explain further!

Reviewer: Thank you for the clarifications!

- Syntax: `manifestd tx poa update-staking-params [unbondingTime] [maxVals] [maxEntries] [historicalEntries] [bondDenom] [minCommissionRate]`

  - Parameters:

    - `unbondingTime`: The amount of time it takes to unbond tokens.
    - `maxVals`: The maximum number of validators.
    - `maxEntries`: The maximum number of entries.
    - `historicalEntries`: The number of historical entries to store.
    - `bondDenom`: The denomination for bonding and staking.

>     - `minCommissionRate`: The minimum commission rate for validators.

Reviewer: Details and explain those parameters better.

Reviewer 2: note: these are also mentioned above: https://github.com/liftedinit/manifest-ledger/pull/18/files#r1528512194

Should probably put all in 1 spot. Can pull x/staking info from the x/staking docs

Reviewer 2: most don't apply to manifest since it's PoA and has custom inflation anyway, so commission rate does not matter. Pulling the above comments into this one. So this is really only needed for it's maxVals, which also likely is never needed

  **Example:** `manifestd tx poa update-staking-params 1814400 100 7 1000 umfx 0.01`

##### Set Voting Power (set-power):

- Syntax: `manifestd tx poa set-power [validator] [power] [--unsafe]`

  - Parameters:

    - `validator`: The validator's operator address.

>     - `power`: The voting power to give the validator.

Reviewer: How is this based and calculated?

Reviewer 2: it's just an arbitary number set by the PoA admin

So 1 validator could have 1 POWER and the other have 1 POWER, so each have 50% of the network.

Then if you set 1 validator to 9 POWER, there is 10 total POWER out there. Will add context

>     - `--unsafe`: A flag to allow the PoA admin to set the voting power of a validator that is not in the active set.

Reviewer: What is the use-case for this flag?

Author: As is explained in the flag itself, the unsafe flag allows the PoA admin to set the voting power of a validator that is unactive, meaning they are jailed, or have had their voting power removed prior.

Reviewer: Thanks. Can you document a flow where this is used?

    **Example:** `manifestd tx poa set-power manifestvaloper1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct 1000000000 --unsafe`

> ##### Remove Pending Validator (remove-pending):

Reviewer: What determines if a validator is in a "pending" state? Please explain the flow.

Author: - A user submits a transaciton to become a validator 
- Their submission goes into the queue and they are in a pending state
- The PoA admin accepts them

- Syntax: `manifestd tx poa remove-pending [validator]`

  - Parameters:

    - `validator`: The validator's operator address.

    **Example:** `manifestd tx poa remove-pending manifestvaloper1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct`

##### Remove Validator (remove):

- Syntax: `manifestd tx poa remove [validator]`

  - Parameters:

    - `validator`: The validator's operator address.

    **Example:** `manifestd tx poa remove manifestvaloper1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct`

## Token Factory Module

> The Token Factory module as it is implemented on the Manifest Network, allows the PoA admin to have granular control over the creation and management of tokens on the Manifest Network. The admin can mint, burn, edit, and transfer tokens to other accounts from any account.

Reviewer: Does that mean that the admin can send tokens from a user account to another user account without user approval?

In this context, does admin == PoA admin?

Author: In all contexts, the PoA admin is the admin of a tokenfactory token because only the PoA admin can create them

Reviewer 2: yes, this is apart of the Cosmos tokenfactory spec. I can disable this forced-transfer logic if you like in 1 line: https://github.com/liftedinit/manifest-ledger/blob/main/app/app.go#L163

As mentioned in another comment, the tokenfactory admin is the creator of the token, and can be changed by only the admin. Anyone can create new tokens.

> The Token Factory module as it is implemented on the Manifest Network, allows the PoA admin to have granular control over the creation and management of tokens on the Manifest Network. The admin can mint, burn, edit, and transfer tokens to other accounts from any account.

Author: no these are just the native tokens, adding/removing tokens from an account or changing the native tokens metadata requires a network upgrade

> The Token Factory module as it is implemented on the Manifest Network, allows the PoA admin to have granular control over the creation and management of tokens on the Manifest Network. The admin can mint, burn, edit, and transfer tokens to other accounts from any account.

Reviewer: Thanks. Please add a mention about this.

> The Token Factory module as it is implemented on the Manifest Network, allows the PoA admin to have granular control over the creation and management of tokens on the Manifest Network. The admin can mint, burn, edit, and transfer tokens to other accounts from any account.

Reviewer 2: correction: I added this feature for manifest called `SudoMint`. https://github.com/liftedinit/manifest-ledger/blob/main/app/app.go#L165

kind of like linux `sudo`, when enabled the POA admin can mint any non tokenfactory tokens (excluding umfx ofc). So a new token without the tokenfactory factory/ prefix can be created at runtime by the POA admin (multisig)

### Module Functionality

#### Token Minting:

- Create a token with a specific denom
- Mint a token with a specific amount and denom to your account

> - Mint a token with a specific amount and denom to another account

Author: fixed

- Burn a token with a specific amount and denom from another account

#### Token Administration:

- Change the admin address for a factory-created denom
- Force transfer tokens from one address to another address

#### Metadata Management:

- Change the base metadata for a factory-created denom

#### Commands

##### Burn (burn):

- Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory burn [amount]`

  - Parameters:
    - `amount`: The amount and denom of the token you would like to burn from your account.

  **Example:** `manifestd tx tokenfactory burn 1<denom>`

##### Burn From (burn-from):

- Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory burn-from [address] [amount]`

  - Parameters:
    - `address`: The address of the account you would like to burn the tokens from.
    - `amount`: The amount and denom of the token you would like to burn.

  **Example:** `manifestd tx tokenfactory burn-from manifest1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct 1<denom>`

##### Mint (mint):

- Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory mint [amount]`

  - Parameters:
    - `amount`: The amount and denom of the token you would like to mint to your account.

  **Example:** `manifestd tx tokenfactory mint 1<denom>`

> ##### Change Admin (change-admin):

Reviewer: Who is the admin in this context?

> ##### Change Admin (change-admin):

Author: the default admin is always the creator of the token

> ##### Change Admin (change-admin):

Reviewer 2: added note: the admin of a token can also transfer to another admin at any time (a multisig, a module, etc). They can also remove themselves as an admin at any time.

> ##### Change Admin (change-admin):

Reviewer: Can we add this note and an example of how to remove yourself?

> ##### Change Admin (change-admin):

Author: The example for removing yourself is just changing the admin which is documented

- Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory change-admin [denom] [new-admin-address]`

  - Parameters:
    - `denom`: The denom of the token that you would like to change the admin for.
    - `new-admin-address`: The new admin's wallet address.

  **Example:** `manifestd tx tokenfactory change-admin <denom> manifest1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct`

> ##### Create Denom (create-denom):

Author: No, technically the creator of the token is the default admin.

> ##### Create Denom (create-denom):

Reviewer: Perfect. Can we add a note on this?

> - Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory create-denom [subdenom]`

Author: I beleive the token factory flow is as follows 

- create-denom: This creates a token. 
- modify-metadata: This adds information that is otherwise null
- mint or burn
- mint or burn to and from

> - Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory create-denom [subdenom]`

Reviewer: Interesting. Why the two-step process? Does it make sense to create a token with null parameters?

> - Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory create-denom [subdenom]`

Reviewer 2: yes, a token with null params is perfectly fine to do. It's not a hard requirement. So if your token needs the params, you set them. If not, it's fine as is.

A UI or multisig can do these 2 in 1 signature. But this is just CLI things

  - Parameters:
    - `subdenom`: The smallest denomination for your token e.g. udenom.

  **Example:** `manifestd tx tokenfactory create-denom <subdenom>`

> ##### Force Transfer (force-transfer):

Author: Technically you are correct but only because the PoA admin is the only account with the ability to create token factory tokens

> ##### Force Transfer (force-transfer):

Reviewer: Interesting. Users should be able to create their own token.

> ##### Force Transfer (force-transfer):

Reviewer 2: duplicate of: https://github.com/liftedinit/manifest-ledger/pull/18/files#r1530552667

- Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory force-transfer  [amount] [transfer-from-address] [transfer-to-address]`

  - Parameters:
    - `amount`: The amount and denom of the token you would like to transfer.
    - `transfer-from-address`: The address of the account you would like to transfer the tokens from.
    - `transfer-to-address`: The address of the account you would like to transfer the tokens to.

  **Example:** `manifestd tx tokenfactory force-transfer 1<denom> manifest1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct manifest1hj5fveer5cjtn4wd6wstzugjfdxzl0xp8ws9ct`

> ##### Modify Metadata (modify-metadata):

Author: not sure what you mean by this, please expand

- Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory modify-metadata [denom] [ticker-symbol] [description] [exponent]`

  - Parameters:
    - `denom`: The denom of the token you are modifying.
    - `ticker-symbol`: The ticker symbol for the token.
    - `description`: A description of the token.

>     - `exponent`: The exponent for the token e.g. how many zeros.

Author: This is just how token factory functions. Since only the admin will be able to make tokens anyway, we can set whatever standard we want

>     - `exponent`: The exponent for the token e.g. how many zeros.

Reviewer: As I commented above, users should be able to create their own tokens.

>     - `exponent`: The exponent for the token e.g. how many zeros.

Reviewer 2: Correction: yes any user can create a tokenfactory token & this is tested in the e2e functionality. 

The POA admin is the only one who can mint the native umfx token, which is not apart of the tokenfactory spec & handled in the x/manifest module

>     - `exponent`: The exponent for the token e.g. how many zeros.

Reviewer: Thanks for the clarification! Can we add this note somewhere?

>     - `exponent`: The exponent for the token e.g. how many zeros.

Author: There are instructions for both minting events.

- Syntax: `manifestd tx token-factory create-denom [subdenom]`

> > _note:_ the createor of the denom is the denoms admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> _note:_ the creator of the denom is the denom admin.
```
